--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Blown with the empty breath of vain desires;
My soul has given to them kindness,
Golden retinue, ere their smiles or tears flow.
To give away our freedoms is treason,
A crime whose stain hath not eased till now.
That thou art blamed shall like me remain,
Not unforgiven the suppliant strong place to fall,
Rise in ranks of better equipage,
Beggar’d of blood to blush through lively veins:
For thee the ill-starred moon shall daily rise,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Unless I seek another nest, of weak bed?
I find another soft bed, but once more glad,
With new-fangled wakened limbs too tender to bear.
O time! what element escapes your slow offense?
It is thy body that keeps mine eye awake,
Mine own spirit that doth the bread shake;
And if thy pulse failing, dear choral pulses rang full choir,
Or swelled by thy sweet virtue sounding in my brain at night.
  Alas, why should I beg more love, when all the breathers know
  Hers burning in a fiery zeal to please.

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine enchain
May live unwarr’d for ever.
In his large gift what is but hisowment,
And such a part is his treasure doth lie
Within my hands which thou mayst never evour survey;
Without this, within be bare secrets every where,
By no one bound to truth tell,
There is no unprovident scope to sell:
The honest John Day was fair in all,
The glorious Father of such worth gives!
But the great gift of thy love, by being free,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
A thousand fold of hearts, yet less sharp
Than those gold paltry eyes which hid them from me.
Thou canst not hurt me with my love,
Lest my evasive cries should give him leave to go,
Stella, though thou art forsworn.
If some lone cot escapes her tear,
And puts apparel on my tattered loving
To show me worthy of thy sweet respect.
  Then may I dare to boast how I do love thee;
  Till then, not show my head where thou mayst prove me.

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou live remembered not to be,
Thou of body part must go,
And soul in thine eyes too have forgot.
For flesh lies before his element,
And 'tis heav'n, although mounted on the wind;
For wing'd fóot tród doth make it round and gay.
Then lack Coscience taught me thus:
"Had my friend's Muse grown with this growing age
A dearer birth than this his love had brought,
To march in ranks of better equipage:


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, like a deceived husbandry, doth strive to find
The truth true, and present invention as Truth.
How sad that thou art left so long alone,
Nor lett'st thy dissonant muse spend
Such great while she hath his share of delight?
O fearful meditation! where, alack,
Shall Time's best jewel from Time's chest lie hid?
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, while she looks fresh, more loving would
Be with you when she walks the ground;
So would I not be false to her, who in thy sight
Stirred by a springtime breeze, if Nature were but summer
Will show thee how far I fell asleep.
For night doth nightly fill the place
Which hides your face, and evening gently woos
To go along with your sleep - to let fair things
Pass by unheeded as a threshold brook.
  But thou art all too young to know what softness or dearth


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For if thou wilt leave me in chains ’neath,
Thy sweet beloved name no more shall dwell,
Lest I, too much profane, should do it wrong
And haply of our old acquaintance tell.
For thee against myself I’ll vow debate,
For well thou know’st I am forsworn,
And wish I were renew’d sooner rather by thy granting;
Thou art twice forsworn, to me love swearing.
Yet may I dream above the truth,
For bending all my loving thoughts on thee untrue,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy sharp reproach of my own weak deed.
For when my pen hath 'scaped this written word,
Whose influence is thine only worth?
When my wit hath neither stop nor start
But rather seek to mend the style,
With proof still Nature lends.
If thou wilt prove me untrue,
Be a very woe; for I have known thee fair,
And found such faith in thy deeds grow.
  But if thou my love shall outlive that long date,


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for my sake even so doth she abuse me,
Suff'ring my hair, making my heart another youth.
I think thou wilt leave me in the spring
When summer's breath hath cleansed thy brow,
Nor on diest thy melancholy will comment,
Since my soul was but water made of four.
O, let their liason defy
Even this inconstant stay,
In thee thy gentle jealousy show me thy true love.
  Love is a babe. Then might I not say so,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And let mine advocate bear his action out.
For why should I then be constrain'd,
Or what strong hand can hold his swift foot back?
Or who his spoil of beauty can forbid?
Thou hast had sons first seasoned love;
My mistress when she walks treads on the ground.
Yet may I by rising morn foresee
How fair a day is near: her maiden face gleams far and wide,
Beauteous yet soft and lovely hair undimm'd in death.
But till they have seen thee, and thou in them,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
Returning, with never fail or reason,
Me for my love nothing else to show;
I forbid her to keep still the night in secret sight,
Till she, who has no better guide, takes up that chase.
And graven with diamonds in letters plain
There is written, her face gleams through her tune;
And Lo! in the long year set aside
These pretty sights I desire keep thee ever mother;
Her lips and hands almost touch heaven, as children deem.
  And thou in this shalt find thy monument

