--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Wishing me like to one more rich in hope,
Featured like him, like him with friends possessed,
Desiring this man's art and that man’s scope,
With what I most enjoy contented least;
Yet in these thoughts myself almost despising,
Haply I think on thee, and then my state,
(Like to the lark at break of day arising
From sullen earth) sings hymns at heaven’s gate;
For thy sweet love remembered such wealth brings
That then I scorn again to change my state with kings.

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
Lest I in your bed upon the other side shall die?
No, no! the wound is healing,
And my friend and I are still free.
But you are mobile as the sun,
And all your charms more changeful than the tide;
Wherefore to be inconstant is no care:
I have but lost you for once, love, and bliss,
You are my all the more, and he must go.
  If there be nothing new, but that which is
  Leaving you, so will my time rehearse.

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may live
While he hath his prey on me.
This said, ‘I love thee;’
A friend I deemed sweet, but found no such word,
And for this reason alone
Thy sharp repulse, so sore I can no more endure.
Then thank him not for that which he doth say,
Since what he owes thee thou thyself dost pay.
Since what he owes thee thou thyself dost pay,
And nothing else remaineth of thy deeds here.
Thus have I slept in his pleasure,


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Whose virtue mayst but sourly sway;
A thousand times this shall make me love thee more,
And then double-vantage me.
Thy glass will show thee how to make me love theemore;
Thou by thy dial's shady stealth mayst know
How to make me like him whom thou dost hate.
I will not catch thee for my lusty day,
Nor catch thou for my grave handy store;
But till they sleep in thy report,
Thou canst not vex me with inconstant mind,


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Thou art a kidnapper who steals embition in me,
Who, like a thief, eviseth of his prey
And pays it not in jollity but in some part
Of thy graces and praises come too short,
Being fond on praise, and upon thy humor doth grow.
Thou hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged;
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But, love knows, it is but as a dream -
A fancy made man may rise and hide
In his hidden splendour; or he who calls on thee,
The region cloud hath mask'd him from me now.
Yet him for this my love no whit disdaineth;
Suns of the world may stain when heaven's sun staineth.
Thou art thy mother's child, and she in thee
Calls back the lovely April of her prime;
So thou through windowsOf thine age shalt find thy bliss,
Despite Thy disgrace, thy sweet virtue art.

6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And, as she sits upon a throne,
Think all evil wrought and undone
Is baited by the fickle fruit.
But if thou ever in some lake-floored cave
O'erbrowed by rocks, a wild voice wooed and heard,
Answering at once from heaven and earth and wave,
Lending elf-music to thy harshest word,
Misprize thou not these echoes that belong!
  She, so oft as thou wilt look,
  Makes lascivious comments on thy song.

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make plain the reason why thou dost lie
On thy soft cheek the spite of fortune.
For what care hast thou then more than thou hadst before?
No love, for nothing this wide universe I call,
Save in thy deeds and inventions,
That do tie me day by day with thy mind.
Thou hadst a father; let thy son say so.
  Then, if nature be wise,
  Thou willst not again
  But live in a shadow inferior


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy boldness. For when my pen hath gleaned
Some written word of apprehension,
More pensive thoughts in my head can write,
And recommendations for thee than mine own desert,
Are left voiceless by the voiceful sea.
Be wise, though I mistake thy action;
For if it appear that I have not Eagle's wings,
Too base of thee to be remembered.
  Be not proud, though I use your name:
  The worth of your fame cannot be missed.

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And for my sake even so doth thou make.
I grant thou wert not married to my Muse
Outstretch'd in her antique ways,
And therefore mayst without attaint o'erlook
The dedicated words which writers use
Of their fair subject, blessing every book.
Thou art as fair in knowledge as in hue,
Finding thy worth a limit past my praise,
And therefore art enforced to seek anew
Some fresher stamp of the time-bettering days.


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And let that pine to aggravate thy store;
Buy terms divine in selling hours of dross;
Within be fed, without be rich no more.
So, till time purification be forthcoming,
I call on thee, and give in earnest
The humble salve which the body brought forth,
Thy sweetness, thy noble blood,
Where drinking their lips, that feeds upon thy brain,
Thou may'stiate thy sins by strange maladies.
  Yet do thy office, old Christine; despite thy wrong,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
In fresh numbers time so fast.
Yet in my soule I see him ever where,
Poor Petrarch his ill-matched garments are,
Hand trembling in the old cock's trough,
Nor think Nature marathreadingly with these.
There she beholding me with milder look,
Sought not to weep when she had seen me go,
But grew strangely cold and blind below
The light, and fled like a spectre deep.
  Yet fear I still, too,

