--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
For then I am bound to wait till tomorrow?
O, no! Sweet flattery! But yet doth she abuse me more than her own glass can mend;
I must attend time's leisure with my moan;
And even thence thou gav'st myself a winter's welcome,
And I disgrace her for this crime:
Although I consider thee to be gone,
Not by day but night see eachother grow tired;
Then do thy worst to steal thyself away,
  Since sleep kills me far worse than hate's injury.

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine eye may gaze
Beyond the grave and look back again.
For never-resting time leads summer on
To hideous winter and confounds him there,
Sap checked with frost and lusty leaves quite gone,
Beauty o'er-snowed and bareness everywhere.
Then thou gav'st me thus:
He owes thee virtue, beauty,and thou must die;
If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
Thou must be buried where thou art seen.
  But if thou live, be remembered not for that which thou hast done.

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
Since then my life shall be forgotten.
Thou art the grave where buried love doth live,
Hung with the trophies of my lovers gone,
Who all their parts of me did give;
That due of many now is thine alone.
Inheritance can seem but one hour mine, Shining Time's gift behind closed doors.
But this thy tomb will not hold,
Nor it nor thy dear graces remembered.

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
For how can mine eyes be fitted
In the distraction of this madding fever?
Or on my frailties why are frailer spies outfitted
To take what care thou mayst suppose
Of public kindness by all thy state,
By seeing farther than thy deeds would show.
Look what good turns hearts for love have done:
Mine own sweet issue now becomes a fee;
Thyself away are present still with me;
  Or if they see thee frowning on thy change,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, buy it from me, swing'st dead reckoning time;
The rose looks fair, but fairer we it deem
For that sweet odor which doth in it live.
The canker blooms have full as deep a dye
As the perfumed tincture of the roses,
Hang on such thorns, and play as wantonly
When summer's breath their masked buds discloses;
But, for their virtue only is their show,
They live unwooed and unrespected fade,
Die to themselves. Sweet flowers do not so;
Of their sweet deaths are sweetest odors made.


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Yet like enough thou know'st thy estimate.
The charter of thy worth gives thee releasing;
My mistress' eyes are thine and the heart in their controlling,
And they play the watchman ever for thy sake,
Seeking that beauteous roof to ruinate
Which to repair should be thy chief desire.
O, let her suffer what she perceiv'st
To import forgetfulness into my deeds;
  The hardest knife ill used doth lose his edge.

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear,
And like weeds they fester smell far worse than weeds.
If nature have any wrinkle graven there,
A frown will be most evident thence. But beauty's effect is unbless some wanton gift lodged,
Which heaven itself doth use
And works on such compounds as sweet are well esteemed.
  For thee it is an ever-fixed mark
  That looks on tempests and is never shaken.

8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy adverse party's wish.
O, that our night of woe might have remembered
The deepest sense how hard true sorrow hits,
And soon to you as you to me then tendered
Are brief offices where late the sweet birds sang.
In many's looks these blenches you see,
But heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet beauty should ever dwell.
  To hear with eyes belongs to love's fine wit.

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And that is most evident.
In good faith some say that thou dost love "Thy looks best,"
Others else tell the contrary view,
And therein dignified are those who give thyself so thine eye.
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his look translate!
 How many gazers mightst thou lead away
If thou wouldst use the strength of all thy state!
  But do not so. I love thee in such sort as
  That you mayst true love know how to make one twain

10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
The one that right or wrong did proceed;
the other, contrary I can tell the story of thy days,
Making no summer of another's green, gay, or strange.
Thou single wilt prove none, for evermore enlarged,
Resembling strong youth in thee, whose uneared womb
Disdains the tillage of thy husbandry.
Yet this thy love cannot be so tested
As sensitivity to correction.
  For thee it fears not policy, that heretic
  Which works upon leases of short-numbered hours.

11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, what poverty my muse brings forth,
That, having such a scope to show her pride, +
The argument everything that grows with her labour;
And for a woman wert thou first created,
Till Nature fell a-doting by thee defeated
By adding one thing to the main.
But since she pricked thee out for women's pleasure,
Mine be thy love, and thy love's use their treasure;
