--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
That I may not hope for full release
In the cold, nor be denied.
Nor can I chide thy soul, whom like a thief
Is scorned, if not lives in disgrace.
If thou survive my well-contented day
And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover,
Compare them with the bettering of the time,
And though they be outstripp'd by every pen,
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
And with your help keep my life in strictest measure,
That I may think once how crushed I am with you?
O, no. Your love will be as hard
As any mother's child, though not so bright
As those gold candles fixed in heaven's air.
Better by such an all-embalming summer
Than think that I can think on thee more.
  For summer and his pleasures wait on thee,
  And thou away, much more blessed than I.

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine are free.
Thee have I not locked up in any chest,
Save where thou art not, though I feel thou art,
Within the gentle closure of my breast,
From whence at pleasure thou mayst come and part;
And even thence thou wilt be stol'n, I fear,
For truth proves thievish for a prize so dear.
  Yet do thy worst, old love, and yet I know it not.
  For as the waves make towards the pebbled shore,
  So do our minutes hasten to eternity.

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
When what I want, my love's gain,
Thyself away are present still with me;
For there can live no hatred in thine eye,
Therefore in that I cannot know thy change.
In many's looks, the false heart's history
Is writ in moods and frowns and wrinkles strange.
But heaven in thy creation did decree
That in thy face sweet love should ever dwell;
Whate'er thy thoughts or thy heart's workings be,
Thy looks should nothing thence but sweetness tell.


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou survive my well-contended day,
Whenas thy churl Death my bones with dust shall cover,
And shalt by fortune once more re-survey
These poor rude lines of thy deceased lover,
Compare them with the bettering of the time,
And though they be outstipp’d by every pen,
Reserve them for my love, not for their rhyme,
Exceeded by the height of happier men.
O, then vouchsafe me but this loving thought:
‘Had my friend’s Muse grown with this growing age,


5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that thou dost deceive the sight and feel’st true.
To be so tickled, they would change their state
And situation with those dancing chips,
O’er whom thy glass shows them near them;
Or, if they see what good turns eyes for eyes have done,
Mine eye be thou, the better part of me:
For thou canst not hurt much, being vile!
But do not so; I love thee in such sort
As, thou being mine, mine is thy good report.

6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
And on as she dyed taint
For showy days with her lusty days.
I love not to the painted beauty o'erlooked on;
Not sweet for her smile full many a moan,
But in mine own love's strength I read such art
As truth and beauty shall together thrive
If from her hardiness led.
  O, for my love's sake even so
  As he takes from you, I engraft you new.

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Make me bow to drain fate’s cup of joy;
Save that my soul’s imaginary sight
Presents thy love to mortals and ends the day,
Not does privileging thy beauty;
It is my love that keeps mine eye awake;
Mine own true love that doth my rest defeat,
To play the watchman ever for thy sake:
For thee watch I whilst thou dost wake elsewhere,
From my far off, which others all too near.
Unhappy word! if to-night there be light,


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
Thy worth's unknown, although my deeds are known.
For if some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe
And rectified is thine own dear pity;
Thou by thy neglect hast passed by the ambush of young days,
Either not assailed, or victor being charged;
Yet this thy praise cannot be so thy praise
To tie up envy, evermore enlarged.
  If some suspect of ill masked not thy show,
  Then thou alone kingdoms of hearts shouldst owe.

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And my soul that loves thy earnestly.
What I do when thou dost love me, let it excuse thy offense;
I do likewise hate thee with my ear,
That an evil spirit doth possess
Which spurns thy gently kindling fire.
When on the field with frowning pride
Weighs not the dust and injury of sleeping sighs,
Nor gives to necessary wrinkles place,
But makes antiquity for aye his page,
  Finding the first conceit of love there bred,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which will not fail me but approve thy trespass?
Thou art my sovereign Queen, and I must strive
To know my shames and praises from her tongue;
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces graced be.
But thou art all my art and dost advance
As high as learning my rude ignorance.
  To give away myself keeps me still,
  And I am still with them, and they with thee;
  Or, if they sleep, thy verse in my verse shall stay,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
He stoop to quench her thirst at the door,
With piteous voice, and humbly bended head.
Now, hushed she, and wandering still,
Strifeily fingering his drum,
And moan th' expense of spirit in vain.
Thus is it in such extremity brought,
In frozen thought, now and now it stands in flame.
Twanging the full-stringed lyre through loud access
Of shrieking and reproach; all her little being
Fade while she whirls throes throes round her haggard eyes.
