--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
Looking with pretty ruth upon my pain.
And truly not the morning sun of heaven
Better becomes the grey cheeks of the east,
Nor that full star that ushers in the even
Doth half that glory to the sober west,
As those two mourning eyes become thy face:
O, let it then as well beseem thy heart
To mourn for me, since mourning doth thee grace,
And suit thy pity like in every part.
Then will I swear beauty herself is black


1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But slave to slavery my sweet’st friend must be
Me from myself thy cruel eye hath taken,
And my next self thou harder hast engrossed;
Of him, myself included in this sheet is hanging still,
A torment thrice threefold thus to be crossed.
Prison my heart in thy steel bosom's ward,
But then my friend's heart let my poor heart bail;
Whoe’er keeps me, let my heart be his guard.
Thou canst not then use rigour in thine jail.
And yet thou wilt; for I, being pent in thee,


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
Thou wilt restore, to be my comfort still:
But thou wilt not, nor he will not be free,
For thou art covetous and he is kind;
He learn’d but surety-like to write for me
Under that bond that him as fast doth bind,
The statute of thy beauty thou wilt take,
Thou usurer, that put’st forth all to use
And sue a friend came debtor for my sake;
So him I lost through my unkind abuse.
Him have I lost; thou hast both him and me:


3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To thy sweet will making addition thus.
Wilt thou, whose will is large and spacious,
Not once vouchsafe to hide my will in thine?
Shall will in others seem right gracious,
And in my will no fair acceptance shine?
The sea, all water, yet receives rain still
And in abundance addeth to his store;
So thou, being rich in ‘gainst our spoil of woe,
Seeking that due of many, and forfeited for all.
This covetous thought might lead me through the world's vain mask


4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But why should I say "with whom frown’st thou then?
Why should I not leave him at his side
To mourn for me in some much-uttered antic face,
When every private thief that trifles this cross?
Nay, love, hate on, since I traced thee,
All wretched errors like spectral arms are borne alone:
Look, what an innocent mind! when she hath seen thee frown,
What weight of grief should she bear,
That slain her waken’d self might forget and be lost no more.
O cruel world, what a mad shame!

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
Yet what the best is take the worst to be.
If eyes corrupt by over-partial looks
Be anchor’d in the bay where all men ride,
Why of eyes’ falsehood hast thou forged hooks,
Whereto the judgement heart slackens when thou art tied?
Why should my heart think that a several plot
Which my heart knows the wide world’s common place?
Or mine eyes seeing this, say this is not,
To put fair truth upon so foul a face?
In things right true my heart and eyes have err’d,


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
Unlearned in the world’s false subtleties.
Thus vainly thinking that she thinks me young,
Although she knows my days are past the best,
Simply I credit her false-speaking tongue:
On both sides thus is simple truth suppressed:
But wherefore says she not she is unjust?
And wherefore say not I that I am old?
O! love’s best habit is in seeming trust,
For as soon as youth and thou grow’st,
She will be faithless till he have confirm’d it.

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Use power with power and slay me not by art.
Tell me thou lovest elsewhere, but in my sight.
Dear heart: forbear to glance thine eye aside
As deep a shadow should obscure its beam;
What need’st thou wound with cunning when thy might
Is more than my o’er-press’d defense can bride?
Let me excuse thee: ah! my love well knows
Her pretty looks have been mine enemies,
And therefore from my face she turns my foes,
That they elsewhere might dart their injuries:


8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express
The manner of my pity-wanting pain.
If I might teach thee wit, better it were,
Though first thy precious phrase might seem strange,
As tests if from some alien pen.
Teach me to scorn indifference white,
For I would question all the year has brought -
If yellow or gold starred my race,
Whereof colour it was built, how worthy still be praised.
But if thou appear untouched by solemn thought,
Thy liker gentle paw well knows no color.


9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
Who in despite of view is pleased to dote;
Nor are mine ears with thy tongue's tune delighted,
Nor tender feeling, to base touches prone,
Nor taste, nor smell, desire another place.
Nor desire one another's beauteous or false esteem:
Though I have fill'd thee with foolish fantasies,
Yet in thy heart a thousand errors note;
How many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
Or whether I may trust these lowly numbers for the crown,


10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And thou shalt find it merits not reproving;
Or if it do, not from those lips of thine,
That have profaned their scarlet ornaments
And sealed false bonds of love as oft as mine,
Robbed others’ beds’ revenues of their rents.
Be it lawful I love thee as thou lov’st those
Whom thine eyes woo as mine importune thee:
Root pity in thy heart, that, when it grows,
Thy pity may deserve to pitied be.
If thou dost seek to have what thou dost hide,


11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
In pursuit thereof; till at the farthest gate
Of earth and sky, whirls she off as fast,
And comes not back again undone, though thy might
Come very near. Yet Nature deals with us,
Not making love groan, but being full of you,
Stripped her last robes, with gold and purple gay —
So thou disengage me from my work to-night,
Turn apart while I erotic lore her happy face,
And play the mother's part, for thy sake nothing strange
Can Happen when thou has had thy will.
