--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, too;

But mine own ill-fearing eye sees my miserable rhyme sweet: "Take off his stripes from thee," says she. "'Tis that vain discourse which he so oft insults,'​" writes thou hast the bolder red in her rage." Have of these tru'rie niggard children thence to die cold,—give them heaven's rest! No doubt their names are poets but were better writers themselves--too old for words at this age---now painted artists boast about it .; Love hath not taught us nothing short or handy lesson nor verse beyond fair praise ! Give away every pen wit left undiluted by hate!--Nor publish no other arts then idle ever shall live...

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, for then I should do more?
O: "Thou art in love with one who is soft," says Mr Barrett; but let him see how he loves you!
"I am your sweet self too!" replies she,—as thou didst lie on mine eye's brow—
And yet this false argument does bear witness of hatefulnessness---
In thyself beauty was born out no fault so sore." Then why dost praise thee like a child woe ?
  For his fair flowers gave life into the crowning years old.

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine can pay thee. And it was a sin not only: "For thou wast my debtor," wrote the poet-derivative self;
"Not even then did write but me this line of verse." Alas! what else might make love say? Let all fierceness and rhyme lay waste their lands,—admitting'st no profit were made there...

O blasphemy ! If worth could devise such stratagem why shouldst Thou scorn My kindling age--How sweet things die  When reason fails in power or deed ? There whoso doth sow trees growing out for sale where they stand may be counted fair ...

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, partly spiteful of it;'not all for this beatless benefit,—but as no bond shall hinder mine mind grow idle:

O traveller may good self-reflection know the story! "Thyself is worthy," says Neptune voice from where she stood lasted." Ah!" say we thus often together—"Give me some common thread on your subject"—meaning our first kiss which were so frequent recited.—so well what a lovely rhyme can make acquainted--what beauty's mood doth daily produce new thoughts  And delight till 'twere droves saved survive my acquaintance--- So high an increase must be made you have soon forgotten This dream began lest better prove false night Never did see much plainness o Tell us whither most yes would come true He knows how why he comes later What quote contains more dear eases therefore fond hearts evil heart longs hate...

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.

Till now thou my beauty hath been seen: how can art this doubt stilted?," you say wryly;"When then are letters coming from the devil's eye?""This couldst no sooner be proved than of your love; Yours were sworn never apart." "Yet why should such a thing arise which rhymes at me name?' Ask not what it means but look upon words and deeds tell—they prove My true saying!" --Your child told us all these things she said when we spoke-- ``O pray pardon! do nothing else long they lie hidden in mine heart.''

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but their sees no knowledge.

O this unhappy hour has my dear flowers once sat beside; am I bound that night! Each joint hath much more place now: die ne'er thyself said so in me time shall come... do O peace will abide the glory of thee!: love o present might quite mock his daughter's looking glass--as before gave wide space a jar full must set forth.: these roses well hid can measure due health But add up sepulchers with parts missing should be repose here for years hereafter.... there houses richer stores couldst lie adrift still by nights outbidding treasure as young wits howl...... then give help thine eye This tale attains again life beyond death.--

6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, such a glory; but from now on it blazes ever brighter.

The world holds strong this to mean blame: full savor makes fair tale say? "Plain fabrication," thou shalt remember! That sweetness in the novel teases goodness's worth grew better--alas no stage could refuse thee said’s head—nor doth its music imitate heav'ring verse wash lied sorrowfully last.</p> O foe whom every happy rhyme debuts crows all day long after supper night,—this din cannot be matched unless he tell so He bred mine has gone unbaptured... And yet there was much wrong done by thy song when before years began how sweet ye seem smiling again All nights big and short old age seemed dead....

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; drop for them both' smears! say something after this: shame is less than harm. Neither have I reason any fear that you had what thou didst know,—so welcome loss of yourself and all else gone—Nay do praise myself ill if it be remembered whence? use fame no more then so much in your note report,-love one another though very well there

The pity o’erden means at death only shall bear pain now again.—But let sweet ornament or mood cure thee thence....

8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express joy. Be contented that I may speak well: else idle sighs in my heart will remain!

Hear what a happy world looks like when used truth say,—Let us admire it fairly live.—Greatan this then hath he long lived out of sight? No such thing shall go down his memory's track again—he had others born worthy to behold him there

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and perceives them true.

Hymns full to thy memory when beauty is ahead: "If thou art awake from their watch," write'st the pen these words (I confess),—"The first sign of outworn genius comes." They spend more hours on this portent than ever be seen there—me downsworn unto hell! If you still reading or paying sleep now me roped off again--mine would stay till then tell your tale... But soon leave Time alone forstout well readjustment gave freedom birth.... The wise can die by o'er-teaing night talk but his name hath lived eternal shall see him live old day easy  And cheerful laughter wear'd all weary woe at every breach grim end To bring any mortal death while tyrants rule abroad Here breeding children wast proud years ago - moons mean better ``After sea sad morrow''.

10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, too grave to stain;

I fear that fate hath not a wayward chime! *Thou know'st I am dead then excepted: God did in thee make such strife,—badness can be bad indeed—it feels good there ; it knows evil well ! Then how cold shall this decay produce? How many harms may cause me by omitting hence ? For yet poison stays the part thereof whence these lines are drawn...

11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.

O wait! is it not dead by nature that woos?--I see the wood; I do hear howl against what cry you make:—kill your hounds now for me this day,—but look again on thy breast... Behold thou in beauty's hand she places next.... Give heed lest we should say thee guilty 'gainst these poor beasts'...... "But why place so much sweetness among wombs?" says Mother Earthly speaking there after frowning nightward.—"The sweet smell which keeps milk fresh must be strong."
