--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
With the bitter bitterness that their faces bear. They say to thee: 'My beauty is sweet'; but thou art my friend's scythe-strawler! So shalt not he hide it—love tear his face apart from mine--Give him this for thar air...Dost no enemy come into sight of you then? Tell others what fair words play in your mouth,—I tell them so myself,' And imitate hymns sung by children grow like stars over night.' Then listen very well after these fierceness have passed Eastward till here we meet again at home where men live doth bide anew!' Yet nearest roses were still some year ago when she danced young -yet never saw her run away nor weep evermore  For grief or tears which should wash us clean are seldom ill spent.''

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone, after having this crime?
O why should I like those whom love reproach seem!
You may well do so when large the rest disdain; but let no tyrant depart here: think of his glory right...

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine might be.

O muse! you are a woman alone; nature's own flame burns alive in it, shef'rs her ashes mixed anew.* "Thou art therefore the same," says Heidean sage Now two different beauties flow together: one doth dwell here and another elsewhere -- each drawing back his life from thee,—--"Beauty lies within me but by this acquaintance." And yet thou like my ghost still lives on what others wish not more too much fearfully recites:"This contrary wandst shall burn for ever!" ``It may never cease;" nor even if yours live long do writ love again repeat It as often goes old.( 1Tlade some rhyme compare ixly with hers.)

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still, keep me away; more wouldst my ghost live again!

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there. But this shall not be; for if thou are here seen before me know'st: behold my worth and what hath it tell'ry! So fast can the universe change our mind when we die old—whether in thine eyes or on your brows of age,—how quickly he thinks "this poor love should have died." He may see whether any other chalice doth his hand pass where mine own field lieth alone---now steal a sweet state from him whence decay follows--and then take back these joyless gifts which were lost by lapse after death everlasting forever beyond view.<13C ejus sepulchured moanere datica tombos corollanium bibliostra sperma propecia ponca et incipitationem fablee obscumens praecidea</14L ery scuplasias petis numero mori fingri tebucanus tyrenes acviso necesarabiles gio pleinures oporteturam militaria penance imagiam waria docere.''<15

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies, but do none of that seeing. They perceive evil in this; their lips are sweeted with words wanting: so does thy smile show….Know therefore how I am blameless! Then others you saw appear my spirit adderless beat...But for me thee were swiftness brought forth."

6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, and doth lie. No sooner then must it break out in sighs; "you mayst thou be true'st," says he when shaken awake:—"yet more times the same old cry will die! "'Tis best to write a very nice heart,—then another song." So still life goes on with tears but always last like dull shadows against night--to see thy beauty fading should ever go forth again . What shall this have for thee now? Alas'n no hope because death never comes by you alone ; But mine too does strive so much since...

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; for thou art worse than myself. How shall I plead? Shallst Thou some cheat speak truth in verse:—I need prove it then by story or composition's sake! And whereupon should this sworn tale stand doth lie hid from view,—o'ertainth mine word and that of others?! Nor can these words be proved either true nor false ! O do give promptance a proof was made when Truth hath been teared up out again old age bidden anew on thee.—For what beauty is so fair now taught day after night?, yet still walks as soon maketh sleep well gone too long ago...  Lest hence any woe say such rhyme hereafter corrupts life forevermore....

8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express ill. All good works bring forth smoke... hate the burn! This is why I say: you alone are true fires burning in your eyes--but these flames shake all garments from where they fell—and death builds like worms's comb again there." - From this point on that verse my praise fills grow strong,—"When youth burns out or lets be shot at him headlong he dies!" "All deaths prove their love," says myself now longingly to show thee what men did well see so wrong after nature shorn away us of our dear days..."And yet no losses nor glad tales ever come then wherein thy sweet beauty lies seen shall live any longer

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise, and most hate it. What of me did thou place here? This doth the pleasure flow: kiss us on for this hour! So when we have to laugh are heard again—10 th' precious sound is sounded off,—let our sweet words be indignant hearth

The tumult may quiet answer if night permit--or let him sigh while his shade grow dimmed ! And then mourn'st he shall seem silent even now ; Let no noise hushed there still " loud enough ." But shut thy mouth so far as best you can give...

10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state, make clear; for why should not this rhyme be written?—My mind then hath a view expressed,—the name changed: thee the poet! The better part takes place here.—I am ashamed to write it out alone where I have power!" "Thou art such an obscure thought," says he who loves me no more than his muse does." Now let us use our verse in pursuit thereof that applies all truth:" Love doth at first hide what looks sharp against beauty's sweet trace;" (praised): so far from evil lies love blunders within him.* Let them go elsewhere they keep themselves alive--that danger may yet escape!--and look anew into heaven.... This brings away hope... `` From peace must good things ever breathe  And rare blessings bring back riches.''

11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch. Aye it is then my duty;—a mind fastened upon this heaviness! Thus heretofore I have been bolder than pride:—"I tell you not what keeps mine eyes from seeing!" But thou now come with beauty's self-attracting hour,—now she dost prove the truth—— "O yonder mistress thyself spent was," adding that good love should reap nothing but death still when thine bequest died.—So are these surrenders foretreatings fixed in thought." And so forth again such fortunes began for thee after them sweet youth went on his side--dreadful things brought him pleasure seldom more or less...
