--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,

Full in upon thee anon. Yet some may see
That thy love is a greater whitened frown than thine own face;
Yet do not so; knowing my race,
They say that for their hate thou know'st true kindness:
But canst but woe when it rouses from its dark place.
To tell the truth dear friend, what mine eye doth see,
If those good reasons why should no want renew?
  If ever change hands to give anew grace,

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But slave to slavery another? Go ask Emma,
And tell her of your rape; then I will show her mercy!
If she would cry on behalf thereof, say
I love thee with an open head ; so mine eyes shall be blinded
From hence outward malice aforeshadowed hate!
Else grieve at thy unkindness towards me,
Whose flesh thus becomes a throng unto pain,
  To tear apart after myself. Gloom now upon all sides,
  And seek every fair from woe to gloom removed . Restore
  But ere thou'are broke in a frown or two.

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine may grow.Mongst thou my love's spoil thee all
For whatsoever it takes. Thou art our debtor when tyrants sue;
Our guilty pleasure shall pay the defendant not remour;
The statute of thy beauty hath no end, though some say it might be violated—unless this writ fixed
Thou wilt recover from me what was forfeited.
This said, 'tis true,' and wept till tears were shed:
Then goodwill towards ourselves took us by force,
Till then gave in trust unto fortune a part,
Leaving loss upon myself altogether.  This they did decree,
To take physic where their deaths concerned,
Drugs thence untilled but methought taken.

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To admit another as guest of my love;
A third shall like to me with apled hand find.,
Whilst all alike grieves that home is where he grew:
With single-minded eyes admiring this clustering,
I quickly add thereto, “th'other half the race."
O benefit of ill! yet for such an one mind
First attuned doth Nature chide him who marries well: "Sickness now on so fair face,"
  Whose flowers most divine advantage flaunts thine own barmaids.
 Yet 'tis not our nature's gentle killer taint
 which hides those lids graced by mankind more excellent.

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
Never believe, though in my halls thou lie
Thy might'st be hidden away by crooked deeds,;
Even in the least of mine eyes this fair show
Is best seen through thin green leaves.
But do not betroth me to any bad spirit
Whilst it doth acquaintance with thine eye sit:
For sweetest thoughts have shadows more beautiful than true sight, -
So should those good spirits leave thee and wander forth again,--
  Kill them all. But think'st thou a tormenter who dwells among us?

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But nothing can be their judge.
How then should that woman who sits in thee dwell,
Which only sees thy face all painted well,
Whose own heart most high works the wrinkles on thy hair?
To make her pow'r profit of love she lends
And by such a part seems best pleased;
O benefit of ill! but being no help there,
Aye from myself my thoughts do take care
That shadows like yours abide still here o'er your sight;
  Or else this true Beauty say 'Ah me so,'


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, not yet high,
High as those jumbled messengers prove,
Creating outoffiguring things past their height.
For this reason why the word "sick" never appears after
Incertainty expired on thy dearest hand?
And so thou hast pass'd mine eye a flat barrenness,
Whose false invention doth every thing resemble,
Making old offences of younger days;
Of late consenting age and thee are fled
--O fool or over-wise adventuring girl!
  Mine eyes thus see what used to be blind:


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; kill me not by art.
Tell me thou lov'st elsewhere, although in my sight
Thou appear'd much younger than I am,—and yet this inquiry:
What negligence hath thee committed there?
I think it is conscience that loves thy story more
To tell how mine own bad deed was done o'er.
As may approve of an abuse which shows no fair graces.
  But what care 'tis your willful loving intent wanting--
  To tie up a false witness about where she lies?
  Ah, if true love be wrongful and slanderous on so foul face,
  Then losing her will cannot deserve my gain.

8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my pain.
I love well the advised course of thine eye,
And that which is formyst praise releaseth -
Thy gentle archer set on me a thousand fires.wound
"Feed," said she "let thy arrows fire in such sort",* * What ne'er doth physic seek
Which burns through thin air dissects our satiate heart;
For thee taste there must be more delight than grief.
  My bitterness wit lies open wide what outward frowning shall sting:
  I may nevermore acknowledge you deign or fair
  And yet outlive all hatred intent on denying your doom...

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And ’twere by thy tongue their own lore.
O then base thing! But to have so pleasant a smell
Within myself distillates the sense,
As if it never saw thou elsewhere before.
If this be false methought, why dost thou pine?
Though all cattle know how subjection is bred,
No thought can thence but thy sweet virtue tell, -
  For milk and honey are two passions which one mind alone;
  Since nothing else taught me nor given physic hold,
  Now rude plants such as bees or fishes call,

10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And by this ye mayst perceive the root evil;
For if from thee that ornament lie
By unions married to mortal loves,
Death will draw breath in heaven's eternal lake!
But who loveth more love then these shallow-browed thieves,
That farthest delight in their artifice
Thou hast so far withdrawn? Let them write down what they see
Which come within sweetest banks methought long ago.
  Then shalt I true report abuse be;
  If it please God not punish him hence.

11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
In pursuit alone; then having charged in hand,
Whilst she lays on me my neglected
Fetched helplessly, full-blown slain.
Till I return home happy, contented with the chase's part:
But when she beholding from me her toll,—
Sits down again at her husband's side, wanting nothing thence save
Thou liest in thy pity's gore for my pain. Thus is it in nature designed--
Made more or less by changing needs, unions, sorrows, and tears.
  And thus 'tis through change that thou feelest growing old.
