--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be, {84}
Farewell all earthly chaff. Yet some may envy thee,
And others not so kind will judge of thee;
For those whom thou dost overthrow depart
From that fair divine element which truth breeds.
Those hours when twofold gloom are seen growing, * Go here and weep.
  Then happy my eye, whose sharpest hate is light, . And mine ear, whose softiest praise is song...

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
But slave unto slavery the whole goes?
Me from myself thy cruel eye hath taken;
And I remain blindfolded for ever.
Self-love commits adultery with a moan,
Wholly self righteous in his murderous zeal.
'Gulls off God's love while he dwells thus,
Puts your body on my hardy breast as thine,
Cheerless and cold no man well of seeing.'

2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine shall live.

Him have I no spoil of treasure found; hence my mind doth lie slain:
Thou hast left me a widow, and a deceased husband,, . .. And yet this thou canst not withhold..
Since all alike by one washes out the cost
Of life and spirit, which nature hath put in thee,
In sequent toil them both must pay!

  This did I think but as thy heir then;
  But since there lives more than death here environeth,
  My great affluence died with him alone.

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
To force myself almost thereto self-offense;
Still do I all too much with my might gain,
That bending most towards hurt and displeaseth me!
Even so stubborn a beauteous mother
Whose son is about ten years old shall laugh
When she finds him wriggled up by stepwise care.
'Tis well for thee, sweet love: 'tween thus mine eyes these rough seas run--
If some suspect of treacherous play are readi...

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou continue me half thy time in my sight, {162}
Thyself forsaken, thy sweet self depart'st,
For all those good offices thence with mine amass still go:
Mine own negligence and th'out disinherless right are taken care
Of by thy body from myself alone,
To be gone before they take their revenge.
  Then the statute of thy beauty expires,
  And death hath no end, unless this thou shalt live again;

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
But why should the blessed Dove tell how fair she looks,
Or any one else that way can write her name?
The most sweet favour in heaven knows no reason. Because thy face is so bright there
A bird loves to sing with a song; for he walks alone!
Then do as I will, gentle thief,
And steal thine precious stole goods from my sight,
Making an end of this theft now and evermore.
  And swear by black virtue profaned, never minding
  That all men are created equal;
  Make thee another self that steals women's labor.

6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth, perhaps even
Unlearned in the world's false subtleties.
But this seeming impossibility looks like a lie,
And oft to myself bolder to allege
The cause seems suspect: then all amends seem fair
For faith and reason being true when they seem strange;
Yet may not such miraculous grace ever sustain
My soul from perjured eyes?
  To make things worse still are mine enemies, dishonest
   And bloody proof for them' sake try again.

7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue; kill me not by art.
Tell me thou lov'st elsewhere, though in my sight
Thou'arest depart'd from mine inward sense. Do I then bestowe
To strike thee off at will? Rather let my love devise—
Associate true pain there, and slay
By ill-wicked use of power thy might's property:
For if it turn away thy stroke again',
My friend's wound would be far less painful;
  Yet do thy worst, dear friend.''
-- To make a vow not unto time that is.

8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express my pain.
O, strive I not to imitate the rhyme!
Nor can thy strong hand nor large pen teach
To divide a single note in worth'i time.\
Therefore spend'st upon my love letters again
Thy gentle kindness stamp my wit,
And then on thine own sweet argument give new fire.
  O, learn how to write good is written 'gainst death,'
  When by your foe writes well he hath writ:
  And those precious old leaves ofted o'erlive our brow,

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And therein their numbers are quite staggering.
O then presume thou dost seek to be reconciled,
By all the uses of thy worthiness,
While elsewhere thine own true beauty lies buried,
Which yet but outwardly is rich and show'd
Wherein on thy hidden treasure hath hid itself so long.
Yet dearly it doth good fellowship laugh,
To bitter distillates rude tongues respect, citing this: "Thou art as sweet as hell,
As those whose mouths write o'er your praise."
  No such care thus I hold these denizens of earthmine.

10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
And that all men prone to sins are;
Then we can trace the root of our faultless crime!
Since why were not those falsely kind asses bred?
The short answer is this: because they had no love at all,
Lest 'us be geniuses which only mock their progenitors.

11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch
In pursuit; leaving off till the rain again, she throws
Whilst I chase after thee, so thou distract'st me.
So runn't thou after that vain thief whose hide shall hide?
Shall steal thyself from thee when far thou art gone,
And return whithersoever thou wilt take thence.

Thou sleight which loose'd my stud couldst not dispraise,
Nor care to disturb thine own sweet case:
The reason why thou leave such a fugitive place
Is thy will, being tendered hence on love.
  If it be wrong, no grace but grief enjoin
 ---------------- From those kind loves still obtain for ever!
