--Generated Sonnets-- 


0
Thine eyes I love, and they, as pitying me,
Knowing thy heart torment me with disdain,
Have put on black, and loving mourners be,
With their thoughts my body's work;
Forance hath put on eye No shadow to my sight,
And no holy bower to lay down love's great sum.
Yet in their grossness I feel that I am not thought,
Whilst they themselves bring this level of woe:
Thou dost beguile the world, unbless some mother, who is so strong
That she may have thee under her wing--
But thou, she says Angrily, know what with thy strength doth grow.
  Thy fault is youth, and thence thou beholds:
  Thy grace doth teach how to make worms thine heir.

1
Beshrew that heart that makes my heart to groan
For that deep wound it gives my friend and me.
Is 't not enough to torture me alone,
If I am grieved at least some part?
No, if you would devise some virtuous lie,
To do more for me than mine own desert,
And hang worse still on thine own dear-purchased right;
I have no love toward others in that bosom sits
That wear their brave state out of memory.
O, let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish;
Look whom she best endowed she gave the more,
Which bounteous gift thou shouldst return again after much deliberation.


2
So, now I have confessed that he is thine
And I myself am mortgaged to thy will,
Myself I'll forfeit, so that other mine
May enjoy the sight of thy smiling face.
Then need I not to fear the worst of wrongs
When in the least of them my life hath end;
I see a better state to me belongs

3
Whoever hath her wish, thou hast thy will,
And will to boot, and will in overplus.
More than enough am I that vex thee still,
With my envy removed from thy heart,
That by this I may remove but a little;
By all external grace have some part,
Which he confounds for love, not mine own worth taken.
So shall those blots whereof with me thou art,
Without thy help, by me be borne alone.
  Their images I loved I view in thee,
  And thou, their stars, hast them even.

4
If thy soul check thee that I come so near,
Swear to thy blind soul that I was thy will,
And will, thy soul knows, is admitted there.
But if thou issueless shalt hap to die, 2015,
The world shall task you to recite;
The earth can have but earth removed from thee,
For it hath no name save where thou art.
So should the lines of life which this time's pencil doth use
Which this time's pencil or my pupil pen
Neither in inward worth nor outward fair
Can make you live yourself in eyes o'erread.
  To give away yourself keeps yourself still,
  And you must live, drawn by your own sweet skill.

5
Thou blind fool, Love, what dost thou to mine eyes
That they behold and see not what they see?
They know what beauty is, see where it lies,
And that it suffers not in smiling pomp, nor falls
Under the blow of thralled discontent.
How much more praise deserved thy fell arrest
Than this unthrift's gold complexion dyed his cheek
In hue thy sweet self so hopes accident!
Yet how many lambs might the stern wolf betray
If like a lamb he could his looks translate!
But I forbid thee one most heinous crime:
O, carve not with thy hours my love's fair brow,
Nor draw no lines there with thine antique pen;


6
When my love swears that she is made of truth
I do believe her though I know she lies,
That she might think me some untutored youth,
While thou in highmost pitch with gentle heart doth ride.
If the dovetail of his rider were but the hide
Of a summer's day to wet a widow's eye,
The region cloud would have masked him from sight.
Yet fear her when thou art gone,
Although in dreams myself behold desert;
For such a time do I now fortify thee
Against confounding age's cruel knife,
Thy beauty and thy years full well befits.
  For forty winters shall besiege thy brow,


7
O, call not me to justify the wrong
That thy unkindness lays upon my heart;
Wound me not with thine eye but with thy tongue;
Sing to the ear that doth thy mind belong. Let me confess that I am a worthless song,
Since why should others' false adulterate eyes translate
My saucy bark? Then do thy worst, for truth proves fairer lodged.
I may be straight though thou art in my soul;
By all external grace my deeds must not be shown,
  Unless this general evil be our desire.

8
Be wise as thou art cruel; do not press
My tongue-tied patience with too much disdain,
Lest sorrow lend me words, and words express more.
Roses have thorns, and silver fountains mud;
Clouds and eclipses stain both moon and sun,
And loathsome canker lives in sweetest bud.
All men make faults, and even I in this,
Authorizing thy trespass with compare,
I bring forth images of goodly deeds,
But those errors are themselves stillborn--
And they are mourners made by thy unkindness.
  For to thy sensual fault I bring up a kind offense--
  Being fond on praise, which makes my heart seem stronger than it fears To be wrong.

9
In faith, I do not love thee with mine eyes,
For they in thee a thousand errors note;
But 'tis my heart that loves what they despise,
And most true it is that I grant thou dost lie.
In others' works thou dost but mend the style,
And arts with thy sweet graces give grace their due.
Yet herein lives wisdom, beauty, and increase--
Without this, folly, age, or cold decay.
If all were minded so, the times should cease,
And threescore year would make the world away.
  But those whom nature hath not made for store,
  She keeps them as she best stores her treasure.

10
Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate,
Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving.
O, but with mine compare thou thine own state,
Which proves more strong than brass? The cause thereof is wanting,
And so my patent back again is swerving.
Thou gav'st me thine not to give away,
Richer than wealth or body politic;
For what care I who calls me well or ill,
So you o'ergreen my bad, insidious hate?
You are my all the world, and I must strive
To know my shames and praises from your tongue;
  And that into this striving I throw all care
  To criticising authority figures whom thou dost abuse.

11
Lo, as a careful huswife runs to catch
One of her feathered creatures broke away,
Sets down her babe, and makes all swift dispatch.
O, let me not to the marriage of true minds,
And keep my love in one of thine own bright eyes,
That through the twilight I may see again;
When in sleep deprivation follows,
Like widowed wombs after their lords' decease.
Let those whom nature hath not made for store,
Harsh, featureless, and rude, barrenly perish;
Look whom she best endowed she gave the more,
